In this text file I would try to give baisc introduction of probability without going into the mathematical terms.

So What is Probabilty?

If we recall our elementary school for us it is just (favourable outcomes / Total number of Outcomes) or the definition would be Measure of Uncertaninty.

But in real life we are surrounded by probabilities and we use it thousands of time in a day without knowing about it.
For example - Don't we try to predict whether it would rain or not just by looking at the color of cloud?
              You must have bet 50Rs on one of your friend during a running race.
              We also try to predict the election result without having much data we just assume that this politician might win as he/she is popular.
This list can go on but my idea is to get familiar with the concept of probability.

How are we able to predict rain just by looking at the sky ?

Over the years we had trained our mind that if the color of clouds are grey or dark grey then it is more likely to rain. This is called observation.
The assumption( more likely to rain) is called probability model . (Probabilty model will be explained in depth in upcoming notes).

In our life we had created many models like this without even knowing the definition of probabilty.

So what now? Lets intrpret the probabilities.
There are two ways to interpret them 1. Frequency interpretation 2. Subjective interpretation


What is Frequency interpretation ? .

Let's say that I am performing an experiment ( just for understading 1000 experiments) and after 1000th try I am able to say that or interpret that the following experiment is havng some kind of property.
The probabilities of a given outcome of an experiment indicates the property of that outcome and property is obtained after continual repition of experiment.

In much simpler words --> Probabilty of an event is proportion to the number of times it occurs.

Subjective interpretation ?

This type of interpretation is often favoured by decision makers as it is associated with persons belief.
In this interpretation it is not taken as a property but as a statement about the beliefs of person who is quoting probabilty.

There are many other interpretation of probabilty but these two are most commoan and basic.